=== 1001a-influencer-guide-508_1.pdf ===
Pages: 8

--- Page 1 ---
Disclosures 101
Social Media
Influencers
for
--- Page 2 ---
Disclosures 101 for Social Media Influencers
2
Do you work with brands 
to recommend or endorse 
products?
If so, you need to comply with the law 
when making these recommendations.
One key is to make a good disclosure 
of your relationship to the brand.
This brochure from FTC staff gives tips on 
when and how to make good disclosures. 
The FTC works to stop deceptive ads, and its Endorsement Guides 
go into detail about how advertisers and endorsers can stay on the 
right side of the law.
If you endorse a product through social media, your endorsement 
message should make it obvious when you have a relationship 
(“material connection”) with the brand. A “material connection” to 
the brand includes a personal, family, or employment relationship or 
a financial relationship – such as the brand paying you or giving you 
free or discounted products or services. 
Telling your followers about these kinds of relationships is important 
because it helps keep your recommendations honest and truthful, 
and it allows people to weigh the value of your endorsements.
As an influencer, it’s your responsibility to make these disclosures, 
to be familiar with the Endorsement Guides, and to comply with laws 
against deceptive ads. Don’t rely on others to do it for you.
--- Page 3 ---
3
When to Disclose
 ⊲ Disclose when you have any financial, employment, personal, 
or family relationship with a brand.
 » Financial relationships aren’t limited to money. Disclose the 
relationship if you got anything of value to mention a product.
 » If a brand gives you free or discounted products or other perks 
and then you mention one of its products, make a disclosure 
even if you weren’t asked to mention that product.
 » Don’t assume your followers already know about your 
brand relationships.
 » Make disclosures even if you think your evaluations 
are unbiased.
 ⊲ Keep in mind that tags, likes, pins, and similar ways of showing 
you like a brand or product are endorsements.
 ⊲ If posting from abroad, U.S. law applies if it’s reasonably 
foreseeable that the post will affect U.S. consumers. Foreign laws 
might also apply.
 ⊲ If you have no brand relationship and are just telling people about 
a product you bought and happen to like, you don’t need to 
declare that you don’t have a brand relationship.
--- Page 4 ---
Disclosures 101 for Social Media Influencers
4
How to Disclose
Make sure people will see and understand 
the disclosure.
 ⊲ Place it so it’s hard to miss.
 » The disclosure should be placed with the endorsement 
message itself.
 » Disclosures are likely to be missed if they appear only on an 
ABOUT ME or profile page, at the end of posts or videos, or 
anywhere that requires a person to click MORE.
 » Don’t mix your disclosure into a group of hashtags or links.
 » If your endorsement is in a picture on a platform like Snapchat 
and Instagram Stories, superimpose the disclosure over the 
picture and make sure viewers have enough time to notice and 
read it. 
 » If making an endorsement in a video, the disclosure should be 
in the video and not just in the description uploaded with the 
video. Viewers are more likely to notice disclosures made in 
both audio and video. Some viewers may watch without sound 
and others may not notice superimposed words.
 » If making an endorsement in a live stream, the disclosure 
should be repeated periodically so viewers who only see part 
of the stream will get the disclosure.
--- Page 5 ---
@
Thanks to Acme brand for the free product! 
#AcmeP artner #ad
5
 ⊲ Use simple and clear language.
 » Simple explanations like “Thanks to Acme brand for the free 
product” are often enough if placed in a way that is hard 
to miss.
 » So are terms like “advertisement,” “ad,” and “sponsored.” 
 » On a space-limited platform like Twitter, the terms 
“AcmePartner” or “Acme Ambassador” (where Acme is the 
brand name) are also options.
 » It’s fine (but not necessary) to include a hashtag with 
the disclosure, such as #ad or #sponsored. 
 » Don’t use vague or confusing terms like “sp,” “spon,” or 
“collab,” or stand-alone terms like “thanks” or “ambassador,” 
and stay away from other abbreviations and shorthand 
when possible.
 ⊲ The disclosure should be in the same language as the 
endorsement itself.
 ⊲ Don’t assume that a platform’s disclosure tool is good enough, 
but consider using it in addition to your own, good disclosure.
--- Page 6 ---
Disclosures 101 for Social Media Influencers
6
What Else to Know
 ⊲ Y ou can’t talk about your experience with a product you 
haven’t tried.
 ⊲ If you’re paid to talk about a product and thought it was terrible, 
you can’t say it’s terrific.
 ⊲ Y ou can’t make up claims about a product that would require 
proof the advertiser doesn’t have – such as scientific proof that 
a product can treat a health condition.
--- Page 7 ---
7
FOR MORE INFORMATION
Have more questions? The FTC’s Endorsement Guides: 
What People Are Asking is an FTC staff publication that 
answers many questions about the use of endorsements, 
including in social media, with many helpful examples. 
FTC.gov/influencers
--- Page 8 ---
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
business.ftc.gov
November 2019